# Dungeon-Escape
"Dungeon Escape" is an interactive computer game with a graphical user interface in which the user can either play in single-player or multi-player mode. The game follows the well-established genre of the platform game. This is a style of game-play that gives a 2D side-on view of the game’s environment, where "gravity" affects dynamic objects as they accelerate towards the bottom of the game window.

In Single Player mode, the Player will navigate through a map consisting of platforms, obstacles and Enemies to finally reach the door which will take them to a new level. Each Player will have three Lives at the start of each game. When they lose all three of their Lives they will have to start their current level over again. A Player cannot possess more than three Lives at any given time. The player will also be collecting coins which spawn in certain spots on the map. Life boxes will also be available to pick up in certain places. Upon picking one of these up, a player will have an extra life added. In Multi-player mode, multiple players can connect to a server and battle against each other. Every 15 seconds, a life will be taken from the player with the least amount of coins. In this mode, the players will also be able to pick up Attack gems which they can use against another player to take a life from him. Freeze boxes will also be available and when a player uses one of these, all of the other players will be frozen for 5 seconds. 

The game software does not require any additional or specialized hardware in order to operate. Existing hardware such a keyboard will be the only hardware required for input to the game. A mouse or touch-pad will also be required for navigating the main menu.

The game can be played by anyone who has basic computer skills. The conventional WASD key commands will be used once the game is in play, as well as the Space Bar, P, Tab and U and Y keys for activating the special items. Holding down the 'W’ key will allow the player’s character to move up climbable objects in the game. It will also be used for opening the door that will take the player to the next level. Holding down the 'S' key will move the character down a climbable object. Holding down the 'D' key will allow the player’s character to walk right and holding down the 'A' key will cause the player’s character to move left. The Space Bar will be used to make the Player jump. The 'P' key will be used to pause the game, while paused, the game view will still be visible. Holding down the Tab key will make a smaller screen appear in the left top corner where the player can see the leader board. (This feature is available only in the Multi-player mode). Also in Multi-player, the 'U' key will be used to activate an attack gem and 'Y' key for the Freeze box, given that the player has picked up one of these.

To make the game experience more interesting and unpredictable, we decided that the map will not be seen as whole by the Player, the screen will follow the Player as they navigate their way through the level and the player will remain central in the frame apart from when he reaches the edges of the map. The characters have placed dynamically the score, lives, timer and advantage items on the screen for a better understanding of the current state of the game.

Also added a section whose purpose is to introduce new users to the game which is called Controls. In this section it is  explained briefly and clearly, the game commands, the purpose of the game and what are the advantage items and how to use them. There are no violent scenes, so the game is suitable for every age category.

The Dungeon Escape is a flexible game that supports user interaction for more than one task at a time. For example, the user can be in the middle of the game and he can still check the leader board by holding down the Tab key.
